There's no Rush, but while I still exist in this Incarnation, I thought I'd be Sneaky and tell you about AlphaDraft. A fantasy esports service where you can play all different types of esports games, you can play at all different types of contest. Also, MonteCristo and I play there, so you never know, you might Met-eos, in the contest, and with the Hai amount of money to be won, you can win thousands and possibly end up on Cloud 9 - not the actual team, I meant that as a figurative place that people talk about in phraseology. If not, I just pray you don't get your Balls slammed in.
Now then, so, we're on to the video. Scrilla.
So, Cloud 9 has just added two players to their roster. They've added Rush, as their starting jungler, and they've added Bunny FuFuu as their substitute support player, where presumably Hai will mostly start as the support, and they will rotate Bunny FuFuu in, and they'll, we'll see how it goes, it's gonna be a 6 man roster. Now, where Cloud 9 were last split, was far from what we ever think of with Cloud 9. They were a team that always made the finals previously, they'd won two straight NA LCS titles, and then they'd finished second twice. But last split was a disaster. Everyone saw that Hai's individual game as a midlaner wasn't strong enough for the region, it was having a lot of difficulties internationally, so they brought in Incarnation, this strong soloQ player with all this hype behind him. But he had his issues integrating into the team, losing Hai meant the shotcalling went to shit to some degree, there was clearly infighting in the team, like it seemed like Meteos was unhappy, Balls started to drop off a cliff completely.
So what they did was, Meteos left the team, they brought Hai in as a jungler, Hai had a lot of difficulties adapting as a jungler, and they ended up finishing up in 7th place, they didn't make the playoffs. But, the new format for qualifying for Worlds meant that they were in the gauntlet, to qualify for the 3rd spot, the 3rd seed for Worlds. They made this great gauntlet run where, it's not like they were dominant, not like they were like super impressive, they just barely were able to just sneak past every opponent, mainly just by getting to the late game and teamfighting their way with decent shotcalling around, and a few carry performances from Incarnation. And they got to Worlds.
But then they were in pool 3 because they were the 3rd seed, but they got one, in theory, a group that wasn't impossible, as a third seed. At least there was people you had a chance to beat. Ok, Fnatic, you maybe would've thought they wouldn't do, but Invictus Gaming, they were themselves a shaky seed coming out of China, and then obviously AHQ is strong, but most people in the West don't know about the strength of the LMS teams. Now amazingly, Cloud9 came out, they 3-0'd the first week, they had this great fast push comp style, Hai was suddenly playing decent jungle champions - before he'd been stuck on Amumu and Shyvana, and he really looked like a mess in the jungle in terms of individual play, his shotcalling had been decent. But, as his shotcalling had improved, so Cloud 9 had improved, and they'd gotten to this point at Worlds, and now his shotcalling seemed pretty good for a team that was kind of understaffed in terms of talent and the kind of group they were in.
So, they won the first three games, then they lost the next three, and they lost the tiebreaker, they didn't get to playoffs at Worlds, but all in all you could see it was a good upwards progression trend. Trajectory was nice, but it was also trajectory that was pretty much, felt like they'd maxed out their team completely, they'd gotten the most they could out the team, which let's face it, it's a position we're used to Cloud 9 kind of being in, getting the absolute most out of all their players. But, if they were ever gonna be a contender for Worlds, if they were gonna be a team that could've gone to the semis for Worlds, changes were gonna have to happen, and that's what's happened now.
So, for me the main storylines of the last split were - Balls had huge issues, never really overcame them, he just got onto Darius a few times. Hai had his difficulties adapting to the jungle, mainly he's an individual player, he had a really poor champion pool, then it got ok, but his shotcalling, once he had adapted to doing it from the jungle role, actually got pretty good, close to his mid lane level by the end. And more importantly, Incarnation eventually did come from this player who seemed a bit shook when he was on stage, who seemed to be like initially just trying to be like the new man in and not make too much noise, in terms of complaining about lack of jungle pressure, or maybe he was obsessed with jungle pressure, but eventually Hai coming in, Hai understanding like that's what this guy needs to be comfortable, and he really, aside from Sneaky, is my only carry player on the team, because I'm not gonna carry from jungle, LemonNation's not really that great a support player anymore, and Balls is off, just a dead man walking.
So at that point in time, it was understood that you needed Incarnation to be good. And so he got the focus needed, and he was able to improve, to improve his stage performance, his carry potential went through the roof, and now he became a strong mid laner. I wouldn't say he's really at the level of Bjergsen and Febiven quite yet, but he did have individual games where he was actually a carry player and was definitely the reason why they won. And even, played well in some of the losses, which was quite impressive, I thought.
So you take that team, and now you add in these new players. So you add in Rush as a jungler, formerly of Team Impulse, TIP. Now the first thing to say about Rush, for anyone who doesn't follow this. I understand why people don't follow soloQ in the West, because it's true, soloQ in the West is in general garbage. There's players who've been number 1 who will never be close to the best at that position even in LCS. Mainly cuz of people not trying as much, and there's just not been the culture on soloQ meaning a lot. But what's interesting is, when that whole Balls Diamond 2 worrying trend meme came out, and people were trying to shout back, like Western pros even were saying, yeah, but who cares about soloQ, you know, soloQ rank doesn't mean anything.
Yeah, in the West it doesn't mean anything. The problem is, in Korea, it does mean something. Cuz in Korea, all the top pros are still trying to keep their level really high in their offtime. They're all trying to keep their rank high so they can validate to their bosses like I'm still a good player, even if they have bad games. For example that's how Ambition from CJ Entus Blaze was able to retain his spot for so long, cuz he was always being a top 5 individual player in soloQ. So it's never like they could say oh, you're not good enough as a player anymore, even if you had issues in the game. Instead he could make it like nah, I'll work on these issues.
You look at some of the players they have, all the top players near the top of the soloQ, there's also Chinese players playing all the time, top pros there trying to show how good they are, LMS players playing sometime. So actually it's incredibly competitive. In fact, LMS expert and commentator Clement Chu, he even said, in the Korean soloQ rank, really is like a good determiner of how good you are. Players who aren't that good are just never gonna have a shot at Challenger in Korea. It will never happen for them, so competitive.
So, the reason I'm setting this context up is, Rush is probably the best player we've ever seen in NA LCS in terms of his level in soloQ, as of like the time he's played in NA LCS. Cuz he's Korean, so he's gone back to Korea a number of times, so before he joined TIP, then after he joined TIP, then during different points in time. Every time he goes back to Korea he's getting Rank 1 on soloQ in Korea. He's the best player on soloQ in Korea, to some degree. He's having games where if you watch his streamed games, he's like hard carrying, brutalizing the other team, wrecking the other jungler and getting ganks all over the map, when he's playing against Faker, Deft, these god like players from Korea.
So this is a phenomenally talented player, especially, and most interestingly, as a hard carry jungler style player. But one who does it by getting ganks off all the time, he's not just that he gets key ganks off, and he just farms a lot - he gets it by doing mad, like he's the guy where if he gets a gank, he's gonna turn that into another gank and then he's gonna take his two kills, he's gonna go buy an item, he's gonna use that to do damage, and he's gonna go and fuck someone else up, just snowball the whole game. That's what great about him, he's a carry jungler, but he's a snowball carry jungler, which is potentially very exciting for this lineup they've got on Cloud 9 now.

Now you look at him as a player - I think that actually TIP, for me, when I looked at their team, was basically all about Impact and Rush. Impact was super stable, and could play carry champions, Rush was this carry jungler, he was clearly the star. The problem with TIP for me was when XiaoWeiXiao, who was really kind of like, to me, he was best left as like a wildcard Pawn type player, who was really up and down depending on his champion, but could carry the game when he had the right champion. The problem is when XiaoWeiXiao got banned for the eloboosting, that put them in a situation where they had this inexperienced guy with a very limited champion pool, basically Azir, and you had to put him if not on Azir, on just super supportive shit like Lulu. And so cuz you're putting him on that, who knows why, they then thought to themselves, right, well now the carry has to be the AD Carry, Apollo, who was like a sort of a cleanup AD Carry. And so instead, they made Impact just be this stable top laner who was playing supportive champions himself, and they put all the damage onto like the Kog'Maw, of the AD Carry, whereas Impact probably suited to be a carry player in that meta. And then with Rush, you could snowball Impact, but they chose not to go that route, probably because they're worried about how Gate would do in the midlane.
So I think Rush, as good as he looked, and he did look phenomenal, even had great games in the playoffs. He could've been even better. Like I actually thought if they'd had XiaoWeiXiao, that would've been a really interesting series being TIP and CLG, and it wouldn't have been as clear cut as it was, and they could've contended potentially to make the final. And if they would've done, it would've been on his back. So to me he was like the MVP level candidate certainly, he was a phenomenal player.
Now, what's interesting is, when he comes into Cloud 9, one of the really good things, is first of all, that he's not gonna be able to help out Incarnation. Not least because since they've got Balls in the top laner, and Balls hasn't shown any signs of life for about a year, a year and a half, you're looking at the team and you're like right, it's gotta be about Incarnation, he's the main carry player on the team. Along with Sneaky, but the difference is, super carry midlaner could obviously do a lot, whereas at the moment, even a really good AD Carry, at least in the previous meta, had to play around the team to some degree. If you can get Incarnation rolling, you can have a really good chance to win the game. And so with a snowball carry type jungler who loves to get sick ganks off, this is ideal for Incarnation. Cuz it means first of all he can get snowballed himself. Secondly he's gonna have in theory have constant pressure, so that whole worry he used to have, like that's one of the things I talked to him about when I first went there to do those interviews with Cloud 9. And then what he was so concerned about was, he was the kind of player where maybe he was new to the stage environment, he felt like he needed like full vision control all around the mid, and he needed to know he could play aggressive in lane, and harass the guy, because he needed to know the jungler couldn't be in that brush there. He was so worried that if he went forwards and he harassed and tried to carry his lane, try to get a cs advantage, that he would just get repeatedly ganked and that it would throw the game in that sense. And the last thing he wasnted to do was to be the guy feeding in midlane - he was the brand new player, all the rest have played in a team for many years and he's supposed to come and be the savior. So you can see the pressures that were on him, and that was clearly in his mind, it was clearly fucking with him.
But that's what was great, remember that interview where Hai said something along the lines of he told Incarnation, like, something, wasn't it some line along the lines of like, if you let me, if you carry me, then I'll carry you to Worlds, or something along those lines, it's all like, you're gonna be the carry player, and if you can just carry the game, I'll do the rest, I'll get the team in position where we can actually go to Worlds. And that mentality I feel like helped free Incarnation up a bit.
So with Rush, it's less an issue with that, it's more like you have this super duper jungler who wants to gank, and wants to make plays. Therefore just get ready, just pack up, let's go. And not only that, now the other midlaner's gonna be worried about where Rush is all the time. So in theory, those worries should be gone, and Incarnation should be freed to be as good as he was at Worlds and in the gauntlet run.
You also look at the fact that, one of your big concerns is during the games where you don't play Hai as the support player, and you don't have that shotcalling, and instead you have Bunny FuFuu, who is a shotcaller but is not on the same level as Hai, especially not holistically in terms of understanding of the whole map and how to play the meta. Since you're not gonna have that shotcalling some of the time, you'd hope, by having this super strong carry jungler, and now having this really strong midlaner, that you can snowball games more to the point where you don't have to do those amazing comebacks we think of with the old Cloud 9, which is where a lot of the great shotcalling came in, or having to be in a tense mid game where you then, one great call, or maybe go on an objective, decides how you win the game.
So I think Rush can potentially be a very very good addition here. What's interesting as well is, he made the comment in his introduction interview that he's, Cloud 9's used to having carry type junglers. But what's funny is, I wonder if it was just like a, like him himself translating wrong, or he meant to say, but he said that in the sense that Meteos and Hai were farm heavy junglers. Now what's funny is, even though he's a carry jungler, Rush, I don't think of him as a farm heavy carry jungler. To me he's the carry jungler who gets, he gets his kills and his gold from actually, gets his gold rather, from kills, from making action on the map, and that's how he dominates the game and snowballs it. So I wonder if he just thinks of farm jungler as carry jungler, or if he thinks they're synonymous. Cuz to me, he's not gonna be so farm-heavy, he's just gonna be beasting all over the map, like that's how he's at his best. And he has the potential to be the best jungler in NA this split, that's absoultely interesting in itself. Especially because now we're gonna get to see him go against Svenskeren, that'll be very interesting right there. Cuz those were to me, were the two beast carry junglers of their regions last split.
So, then you look at the fact that they've brought in Bunny FuFuu. Now, when I first heard the rumors, they're adding Bunny FuFuu, obviously the initial assumption was they're adding him as the permanent player, and at the time it sounded like initially, I mean they even said this in their post about it, that it was gonna depend whether who they could get a jungle or support, and maybe they'd put Hai as jungler, if they couldn't get a good jungler, and they'd just put someone else as support. So I thought maybe they're just gonna have Hai as the jungler and have the shotcalling there.
The main issue with Bunny FuFuu is, he's a good player, in regular splits - at times he's been a very good player, he's been one of the best at his position. But, you look at this playoff runs, and they're still a bit shaky. They're not shaky as in bad, he just plays ok, but he doesn't play up to the level that we've seen when he's in regular split. And, he is one of those players where it still has to be said, even though he improved a lot and obviously he's one of the guys who was one of the first using Shen support, and was getting a lot of effectiveness out of that - initially, I think they overused it towards the end. One of the issues is, yeah he's amazing at Thresh, but he's also a player where, if you just ban his Thresh, it really does limit him in terms of the past splits, in terms of how much he has a potential to make carry type incredible plays himself in the game. So that's something that might be freed up in Cloud 9 if he plays, cuz they've got lots of other good players, but also might still be a concern, he has to improve in that sense.
Likewise, his shotcalling kind of went with his individual play. In the regular split, seemed decent, at times it was good, but it hasn't really ascended like a top tier level yet, and at times it was clearly off as well, and you look at the end of the split when they were losing, there were clearly some key mistakes that were being made here.

It is hard, I have to admit, to judge Gravity, because of the fact that to me, Gravity was so influenced by what I consider kind of bullshit picks by Keane, as in Keane was the ultimate best of 1 player, where over a series he was never gonna be a beast, he was never gonna dominate the whole series. But in best of ones, he could catch you off with these weird picks, especially new picks that weren't meta picks in any sense, some of them wouldn't even become meta picks. That might only work once or twice, but he would be able to get him to work, and then his abusive way of playing once he did get those kills on those champions meant that these were almost like one off games that weren't gonna be able to be replicated later anyways. So, it wasn't a good style, therefore to me it was hard to judge how some of the other players were playing, and I think people as a result, people like Hauntzer looked worse when they were in the playoffs, because Keane just went completely to shit, and also they were never on the right side of the map. If you remember there was the scenario where they had the choice to have an extra game on the side of the map that they would all previously got loads of their wins on, and they actually chose not to, bizarrely in the playoffs. I mean, that coach should be getting fucking fired, but, oh well.
So the thing about Bunny FuFuu is, the fact that he's a sub, rather than a starter, is what's so interesting. Because I would hope, even on the video that presented like listen we can learn things off each other, like maybe Bunny FuFuu can help Hai learn some things, ok, true, but to me, the main thing to have Bunny FuFuu there for, is if Hai has injury problems, but secondly to hopefully train some of his shotcalling faculties. Now I don't think shotcalling is something that is just as simple as other areas of the game, that you can just sit down and train it and learn it. I do think everyone can improve a bit. So my main thing with that is, I would hope that Bunny FuFuu is gonna be watching and listening to all these games, and just trying to figure out how does Hai, within Hai's style of shotcalling, how does he figure out what he's gonna do in the team, when's the right place in a game or a moment to make this sort of a comment. Also, what's Hai doing in terms of what he says, what's behind that? Like is he saying this right now, cuz tactically it's the best thing to do, or is he saying this right now to allay the fears of someone like Incarnation who's concerned like oh they might come mid to gank me in a second, or is he telling Balls like he can safe for a little bit. Is that, cuz he's just, just sees the map that way, is that for the comfort of the player? The way he sees the game, and then being able to deconstruct that and then have Bunny FuFuu reassemble it in terms of how he sees the game. Now as a replica, but as like taking what works, and trying to see what would work for him. That to me is potentially the most interesting part of this move.
Cuz in the future, they clearly can't have Hai forever. We also definitely don't know that Hai will be a good support player, so they're gonna need to work, to me, Bunny FuFuu has to be like a work in progress that is going towards the goal of eventually him becoming the starter. Now if he becomes the starter, obviously the issue there is they won't have the brilliant shotcalling that they got from Hai, they'll have to lose that. But again, as we said when they originally lost Hai, the aim is to have a good enough team elsewhere that you have good enough shotcalling, like the majority of other teams do, they don't have super god tier shotcallers in general aside from Yellowstar on Fnatic, but what you want to have is just good enough shotcalling that having a fantastic team can execute that like effective enough shotcalling, to be able to win games. And that's what you want to go for eventually with Bunny FuFuu, because Hai can't play forever, quite clearly.
There's also the fact that when they do have Hai in the game, one of the areas I see as being good, is first of all, LemonNation was having individual problems. For me, like over a year ago, like difference was, he had the smarts to stay in the game, but his individual game hasn't been that good since probably Season 3, if we're being realistic. But he always played so well with Sneaky, he knew what Sneaky needed, I would hope that Hai can do that, in terms of, cuz he's a player that seems very good at understanding what his teammates need. He can be able to accomadate Sneaky, so Sneaky has success individually in the lane, and here's where I think it's interesting. Because I see Balls as a liability, for me the carries have to be Incarnation/Sneaky. So I would hope that Hai being in Sneaky's lane means then Hai's shotcalling, once he adapts to do it from support, means he can actually include Sneaky more primarily within what the team concept's gonna be, cuz he can then know when to transition what they're doing in bot lane, into overall map pressure or how to take an objective, or how to win a particular teamfight. And since Sneaky's gonna be one of your main damage output sources, this is ideal that you kind of got somebody's who directly connected to him and knows exactly where he's at, to then be able to position that missile towards the enemy, as it were, and direct it in that sense.
Now in terms of the expectations for Cloud 9 for this split. I look at this lineup and I say, with all of the lineups I've seen so far, I think this should be a top 3 team. I think they should be in contention for the top spot. At the moment it's hard to put them ahead of the TSM and the NRG lineups, because on paper those look so exciting, but obviously we don't know how those lineups will work in reality. Now we don't either with this one, and there are still a few question marks. Like you have to look at it and say when they have Hai in the game, they're gonna have better shot calling, but they'll have a slightly weaker lineup in terms of the individual skill, and they might have some issues initially with Hai - who knows, maybe for the whole split, but initially at least, as a support player only. Then you look when they have Bunny FuFuu in, they'll have a stronger individual lineup, but the shotcalling will be a little bit more compromised, and for the whole split, the biggest question mark for me, is just Balls.
Like, what's gonna happen with this guy? Like, in the past... aside from the first split he played, it's never been the case that you could just put Balls on like normal meta champs and just go don't worrry about him, he'll just play safe, doesn't need much jungler pressure, and will just do fine in the game. That's never been the way, usually it's more like he played his specific champions, and then certain games he would have the chance and he would carry, and then in the spring split in 2014 he was actually one of the main carry stars of the team. He's had his issues since then, he didn't look good at Worlds, even in the couple of games they won, it was hard to look at him and go right, he's back, you know, he's figured out the meta, he's gonna be really strong now. It looked like a lot of other factors were part of what was allowing them to do so well, so that's still a big concern for me. Admittedly, the rest of the team does look like it's improving, it's in a good place. So at the moment, I'd pencil them in for a third or fourth level team, and we'll see how it goes during the split.
Thanks to AlphaDraft.

